Questions:

1. Right now the data for the posts is coming from a json file. What changes would you have to make to the application if it came from an API? In what type of hook should you use to fetch the data and why? What other considerations would you have to make?

2. Part of this application uses the package nanoid to generate keys. What issue would this cause for generating keys in React?

Answers:

1. Instead of referring to the local "blogs.json" file, we would have to fetch the data from an API. In order to fetch the data, the "useEffect" hook would be utilized, along with a fetching tool such as "Fetch API", "Axios", or any other methods. Furthermore, there are now a few issues that need addressed, and features that should be added in order to maintain a functional program, and a smooth user experience:

  - Fetching - Fetch requests are heavily taxing on performance, therefore it makes sense to limit the amount of requests whenever possible. In the case of "Hatchways Times", it would make sense to fetch data when the page first loads, when any of the tags are clicked, and when the search is entered. Implementing a chaching feature would greatly reduce the amount of fetch requests, resulting in a return on performance.

  - Loading - While the fetch request is busy retrieving data, it is important to create a state for handling the loading stage, to improve the user experience. One important feature to add would be a "suspense", which prevents components from rendering until data is retrieved, providing a fallback until the data is loaded.  

  - Error Handling - In instances where the API server is down, times out, or any other unexpected circumstances, a state would need to be created to handle these different errors to prevent the program from crashing, and maintain a quality user experience.

  - Storage - Once the data is retrieved, a state needs to be created to store the data so that it can be used throughout the program.

2. The issue with nanoid is that it does not generate stable keys. New keys are generated every time elements are built. This causes issues with React since React utilizes keys to determine which elements need to be re-rendered. Thus, every time new keys are generated via nanoid, React will re-render applicable elements. In this case, nanoid causes major performance issues. There are two potential solutions to this issue.

  - First, and preferred, is to utilize a static UUID. The most preferred key to use is the ID generated by the database. However, if such an ID is not available for use, then a key will need to be generated. Either a custom hashing function could be written to generate unique keys, which is generally a difficult task, or a UUID package such as "react-uuid" could be a suitable alternative. Both of these options have their own pros and cons.

  - Second, if you don't have stable ID's, you can utilize the array index as a key instead of nanoid. This is not a preferred method since it's considered an anti-pattern that can cause major performance issues, and is difficult to debug. However, performance-wise it is still theoretically better than using nanoid.